Welcome to Time Domain Reflectometry or
TDR training.
I am Chad Nelson and Applications
Engineer for the GMSL business unit at
ADI.
We start with the most basic question.
What is a TDR? A TDR
is a low voltage or low current pulse
sent through a transmission line,
with the reflections measured over time
to determine the properties of the
channel under test,
On the right side you can see a
representation of a transmission line
with a couple of disturbances along its
path.
A narrow spot in the T line would
correspond to a bump up in the
characteristic impedance,
while a wide spot would correspond to a
bump down.
When the TDR pulse is sent down the trace,
these discontinuities will cause
reflections in the signal.
The voltage is converted to
characteristic impedance and shown in
time on the TDR equipment.
What are TDRS used for?
Wireless parameters show you the
frequency domain response of a channel.
A TDR shows you the time domain response
of a channel.
Because TDR's are in the time domain,
we can pinpoint the physical locations of
discontinuities.
We can do this by using the propagation
velocity of the signal and the time delay
of the disturbance to locate its location
relative to the signal launch point.
An even easier way to locate the
disturbance is to use your finger pressed
on the transmission line.
Your finger adds capacitance increases
the relative dielectric constant,
causing the impedance to drop wherever
your finger is placed.
So what does a good trace look like on a
TDR?
Here we see the launch onto the PCB with
a small bump up then down as the signal
transitions to the PCB through the SMA
connector.
These are likely due to the ground layer
being pulled slightly away from the edge
of the PCB resulting in the bump up
because the large landing pad of the pin.
We do a ground cut out under the pad to
reduce the excess capacitance.
In this case we may need to make the cut
out a little larger to push the impedance
up.
In the case of the AC capacitor,
our ground cut out is about perfect and
creates just a small bump relative to the
T line impedance.
The rest of the T line is slightly low
but definitely within the good range.
We then get to the Fakra connector and
there is a little bump up then down due
to the transition into the pin landing
pad and the ground cut out.
Then there is a bump up,
likely due to the larger gap between the
edge of the PCB and the Fakra metal
shield.
There was no cable plugged in,
so the impedance shoots up at the end of
the connector.
The resulting S parameters with the long
cable and a 50 ohm load is a respectable
return loss result.
So now we take a look at what a bad trace
looks like on a TDR.
In this case we see a pretty significant
mismatch in the PCB impedance as well as
a pretty ugly launch onto the HMTD
connector.
This results in a failing return loss
result for GMSL3 operation.
So when to use a TDR and when to use S
parameters?
TDR's are best used to physically locate
problem areas on a channel.
DDR's cannot determine whether a GMSL
channel is compliant but are a great
diagnostics tool.
S parameters are required to determine
channel compliance.
The S parameters give a more complete
picture of the channel performance and
must be part of every new hardware design
verification.
Thank you for your time and listening to
this TDR presentation.
Please,
if you have any questions about TDR and
its use for GMSL,
please don't hesitate to contact me.
Chad Nelson here at ADI.